THE SCORECARD — PROJECT NOTES
=============================

Plain text on purpose, so it opens in any editor. This is Claude's working
memory for the project. If Claude ever seems to have forgotten the history,
paste this file back in and it will pick up where it left off.

Kept inside every release zip from v2.19.24 onwards.


HOW TO RESUME AFTER A BREAK
---------------------------
The working folder is wiped between sessions. To restore it:

    mkdir -p /home/claude/v2
    cd /home/claude/v2
    unzip -q /mnt/user-data/outputs/scorecard-v<latest>.zip

The newest zip is the only thing that survives. It now contains the source,
the tests, and this file.

Four habits, each learned the hard way:

  1. PACKAGE AFTER EVERY CHANGE. One change, verify, zip, next. An early
     attempt built five things, packaged none, and lost a whole session.
  2. RUN sh test/all.sh BEFORE PACKAGING. Never skip it.
  3. ASSERT EVERY EDIT LANDS. Several edits have silently failed to apply by
     matching text that had already changed. Check before and after.
  4. KEEP test/ AND THIS FILE IN THE ZIP.


THE APP
-------
Vanilla ES modules, no build step, GitHub Pages, Cloud Firestore.

  index.html      the shell
  app.js          every screen, and the render loop
  model.js        handicap maths, games, standings
  store.js        Firestore and sign-in
  outbox.js       the offline write queue
  courses-api.js  course lookup by name
  firestore.rules the security rules — the only enforcement layer

  reset / cleanup / repair / tidy / rebuild .html
                  one-time data jobs, deliberately kept OUT of the app

World Handicap System:
  differential    = (113 / slope) x (adjusted - rating)
  index           = average of the lowest 8 of the last 20, minimum 3 rounds
  course handicap = index x (slope / 113) + (rating - par)

A NEGATIVE course handicap is legitimate. A good player on a course rated
below par gets fewer strokes than par.

Roles are stored per group: owner, admin, guest. Guests need no password;
admins do. Somebody can be an admin of one group and a guest in another.


THE TESTS
---------
Run them all:   sh test/all.sh

  loads       does the app actually start
  exports     every db.X the app calls exists in store.js
  handlers    every button is wired, and every action has a handler
  discipline  seven habits that each cost a release
  foundation  the handicap maths, games, the calendar
  outbox      offline replay, retries, refusals, batches
  lookup      every shape the course provider has ever sent

They read the source rather than mocking a browser. An earlier suite used a
large fake DOM whose pretend closest() matched every selector, and it hid real
faults for weeks.


THE RULES THAT MATTER
---------------------
* AUTOMATE FIRST. Never hand over manual steps if code can do it. This is an
  accessibility requirement, not a preference.
* LARGE TEXT in every reply. No code formatting - it renders too small to read.
* ONE-TIME DATA WORK goes in a standalone script page, never the app.
* EVERY MULTI-DOCUMENT WRITE uses commitTogether - all or nothing. BUT never
  batch a document together with another whose RULE depends on the first
  existing. Firestore evaluates each write against the state BEFORE the batch.
  This one trap caused three separate "dead button" reports.
* NEVER DELETE ON A FAILED READ. "Cannot confirm" is not "gone". A dropped
  connection once pruned a live group and cost a whole season of rounds.
* SAY AT THE TOP OF THE MESSAGE whether firestore.rules changed.
* UPDATE THE GUIDE in the same release as any change to the screens.
* WHEN A SCREEN FAILS, ASK FOR THE "Technical detail" TEXT FIRST. Three wrong
  fixes were shipped guessing at one crash whose cause was in that expander.
* CLAUDE CANNOT TEST REAL FIREBASE, or the network, or an iPad. Say so plainly
  rather than implying a release is verified.
* NEVER REMOVE AN ESCAPE ROUTE in the same release that replaces it.
* EVERY WRITE TO /golfers by somebody who is not that golfer must carry
  editedIn, naming a group where they are an admin and the golfer is on the
  roster. Exempt: { linkedUid: uid } when claiming an unlinked golfer as
  yourself.


WHAT TENDS TO BREAK
-------------------
* display:flex overrides the hidden attribute. Caused an invisible overlay that
  swallowed every tap. Always add [hidden] { display: none !important }.
* Number("") and Number(null) are both 0. Silently turned "no differential"
  into zero and "no index" into scratch.
* A missing field on a restored round, usually the date, threw and took whole
  screens down.
* iOS: no hover at all; the clipboard is refused unless the page has focus;
  pop-ups are blocked in home-screen apps, so Google sign-in can never work
  there; Safari and the home-screen icon have SEPARATE storage; the number pad
  has no hyphen; repeat(7, 1fr) will not shrink below content size, so use
  minmax(0, 1fr).
* Every tap of an invitation link in a fresh browser creates a NEW anonymous
  account, and therefore another membership for the same person.
* The course provider has changed its data shape at least three times.


FIXED IN 2.21.4
---------------
* The fast-entry filter threw ReferenceError on every keystroke. The block was
  moved from the change listener into the input listener in 2.21.3, but `v` was
  declared in the listener it came FROM. So letters passed straight through and
  an error was logged. Now declared in the block that uses it, and discipline
  check 8 pins it for every listener.
* Joining by code no longer overwrites an existing membership. A code always
  asks for the ordinary member role, so a re-join demoted an admin to a guest.
  joinAssociation now reads the membership first and, if it is there, keeps the
  role and only heals the /userGroups pointer.
* The sign-in failure panel is centred, with a title, one line and two buttons.

FIXED IN 2.21.5
---------------
* The panel no longer claims WHICH of the email or the password was wrong.
  Firebase's email enumeration protection returns the same code for an unknown
  address and a bad password, so naming one was a guess. Both now say "That
  email and password did not match - check both". Do not split them again
  unless enumeration protection is deliberately turned off in the console.

FIXED IN 2.21.6 - why fast entry never saved a score
----------------------------------------------------
postRound writes TWO documents as one batch: the round, and the golfer's index.
The golfer document is TOP LEVEL and shared, so the rules demand an editedIn
field naming a group where you are an admin and that golfer is on the roster.
postRound never sent it. So posting a round for ANYBODY ELSE was refused - and
because it is one batch, all or nothing, the ROUND was refused with it.

Posting your OWN round always worked, because the rules let you edit your own
linked golfer with no editedIn at all. That is why this survived so long: the
Enter tab is normally used on yourself. Fast entry posts for the whole roster,
so it hit the refusal on nearly every row.

editedIn: assocId is now sent by postRound and by rebuildGolferIndex, which had
the same hole for an admin correcting somebody else's round.

Discipline check 6 existed for exactly this and MISSED it - it matched only the
one-line `path: [...], data: {...}` form, and postRound spans several lines. It
now strips comments first (the word editedIn in a note is not the field) and
scans multi-line writes. Proven by removing the field and watching it fail.

Fast entry also used to announce "8 rounds posted" while the writes were still
queued. It now waits for the flush and reports the real number.

COURSES IN 2.21.7 - edit, update from search, hide
--------------------------------------------------
EDIT. An Edit button on each course opens the same editor used to add one.
Only on courses YOU entered: the rules allow update solely to createdBy, and
courses are shared across every group. On somebody else's course the button is
replaced by a line saying why.

UPDATE FROM SEARCH, NAME KEPT. Picking a search result whose name matches a
course already on the list now UPDATES that course instead of adding a second
copy. The course id is kept, so every round posted on it stays attached, and
the name you already have wins over the provider's spelling. Tee ids are
matched BY NAME and carried over - a fresh tee id would detach every round
from the tee it was played off.

A TEE WITH ROUNDS ON IT CANNOT BE REMOVED. The Remove button is replaced by a
count. Checked again in saveCourse, because a greyed-out button is only a hint.

HIDE IS PER GROUP, AND REVERSIBLE. The list of hidden ids lives on the GROUP
document, not on the course - courses are shared, so marking one hidden would
take it off everyone's list. Owner only, because that is who may update the
group document. A course this group has ROUNDS on cannot be hidden: it would
vanish from every picker and an old round could not then be edited.
"Show N hidden courses" reveals them with an Unhide button.

NO DELETE, and no rules change for any of this.

RATINGS AND HISTORY. Editing a course never touches a round. Each round froze
its own rating, slope, par, differential, index and course handicap at entry.
Fixed here: editing an existing ROUND used to recompute its differential from
the course AS IT IS NOW. Harmless while courses could not change; a silent
rewriting of history the moment they could. It now reads the rating and slope
frozen on the round, falling back to the course only for a round old enough to
lack them.

FIXED IN 2.21.8 - the tab bar floating on iPhone
------------------------------------------------
The tab bar was position:fixed to the bottom of the viewport. On an iPhone that
detaches it while scrolling: Safari's bottom toolbar collapses, so the VISUAL
viewport changes height while the LAYOUT viewport does not, and a fixed element
stays pinned to the layout one. The bar floats up over the content mid-scroll
and drops back when scrolling stops. An iPad never shows it because its toolbar
does not collapse that way - which is why this went unseen for so long.

The app is now a fixed-height flex column: header, scrolling main, tab bar, as
three rows of one column 100dvh tall, with the body not scrolling at all. The
bar is in ordinary flow and has nothing to detach from. main is now the only
scrolling element, and its bottom padding dropped from 96px to 24px because the
bar no longer overlaps it.

NOT TESTED ON A DEVICE. Watch for two things: that the keyboard still scrolls a
focused field into view, and that the date picker still behaves. If either
misbehaves, the change is four rules in styles.css and reverts cleanly.

FIXED IN 2.21.9 - the roster row still said "Invite" after inviting
-------------------------------------------------------------------
The invitation WAS being recorded. noteInvitation writes invitedAt and invitedAs
onto the golfer, and the People list further down already reads them to show who
is outstanding. The roster row simply never looked: it branched on linkedUid
alone, so somebody invited but not yet joined was indistinguishable from
somebody never invited.

The labels were wrong as well. "Invited (tick)" was shown for a golfer who had
JOINED - a different and much better thing - which left no wording free for the
state in between.

Three states now:
  joined  (linkedUid)              "Joined ✓"
  waiting (invitedAt, no link)     "Re-send", plus "invited 3 Aug, not joined
                                   yet" on the row's second line
  neither                          "Invite"

resetInvitation clears linkedUid and leaves invitedAt, so re-opening somebody's
invitation correctly puts them back into the waiting state rather than looking
like a stranger.

STILL OPEN
----------
* A code joins the ACCOUNT THAT IS SIGNED IN. An admin who is anonymous on a
  fresh device still becomes a separate guest, because the membership sits on
  the other uid. The code screen now warns about this; the real answer is to
  sign in with email and password on the new device.

* Duplicate golfers on the live data - one person exists four times. tidy
  reports duplicates but does not merge them.
* Golfers belonging to no group are invisible to "Add from my other groups".
* A guest promoted to admin has no password; they should be prompted.
* Rounds live INSIDE the group, so they die with a lost group document, unlike
  golfers and courses which are top level. This is Claude's design error and it
  cost a season of rounds. Mitigated - deleting a group now backs the rounds up
  first - but not architecturally fixed.
* A whole-database backup: Firestore's own export is paid-plan only. The
  in-app "Back up now" is the practical equivalent. Worth adding a monthly
  reminder and keeping the last three automatically.

DECIDED AGAINST: a "super admin" role. Roles are already per group and the
group switcher has no role check, so an admin of two groups can already move
between them. A new cross-group permission list would touch every membership
rule, which is where most failures have come from. "Invite an admin who
doesn't play" fills the one real gap.


DELETING A GROUP SAFELY
-----------------------
Use Admin, then Delete this group. It backs up every round first and hands it
over as a file, then removes the rounds, games, roster and memberships in the
right order, then the group itself.

GOLFERS AND COURSES SURVIVE. They belong to the account, not to any group, and
their rounds in other groups are untouched.

Do NOT delete things by hand first. That is how rounds were orphaned before.
Afterwards, run tidy to archive any leftover test golfers.
